.. _using-aggregations:

Using Aggregations
==================

.. default-role:: code

:ref:`Datasets <using-datasets>` are the core data structure in FiftyOne,
allowing you to represent your raw data, labels, and associated metadata. When
you query and manipulate a |Dataset| object using
:ref:`dataset views <using-views>`, a |DatasetView| object is returned, which
represents a filtered view into a subset of the underlying dataset's contents.

Complementary to this data model, one is often interested in computing
aggregate statistics about datasets, such as label counts, distributions, and
ranges, where each |Sample| is reduced to a single quantity in the aggregate
results.

The :mod:`fiftyone.core.aggregations` module offers a declarative and
highly-efficient approach to computing summary statistics about your datasets
and views.

Overview
________

All builtin aggregations are subclasses of the |Aggregation| class, each
encapsulating the computation of a different statistic about your data.

Aggregations are conveniently exposed as methods on all |Dataset| and
|DatasetView| objects:

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:

    import fiftyone.zoo as foz

    dataset = foz.load_zoo_dataset("quickstart")

    # List available aggregations
    print(dataset.list_aggregations())
    # ['bounds', 'count', 'count_values', 'distinct', ..., 'sum']

Think of aggregations as more efficient, concise alternatives to writing
explicit loops over your dataset to compute a statistic:

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:

    from collections import defaultdict

    # Compute label histogram manually
    manual_counts = defaultdict(int)
    for sample in dataset:
        for detection in sample.ground_truth.detections:
            manual_counts[detection.label] += 1

    # Compute via aggregation
    counts = dataset.count_values("ground_truth.detections.label")
    print(counts)  # same as `manual_counts` above

You can even :ref:`aggregate on expressions <aggregations-expressions>` that
transform the data in arbitrarily complex ways:

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:

    from fiftyone import ViewField as F

    # Expression that computes the number of predicted objects
    num_objects = F("predictions.detections").length()

    # The `(min, max)` number of predictions per sample
    print(dataset.bounds(num_objects))

    # The average number of predictions per sample
    print(dataset.mean(num_objects))

The sections below discuss the available aggregations in more detail. You can
also refer to the :mod:`fiftyone.core.aggregations` module documentation for
detailed examples of using each aggregation.

.. note::

    All aggregations can operate on embedded sample fields using the
    ``embedded.field.name`` syntax.

    Aggregation fields can also include array fields. Most array fields are
    automatically unwound, but you can always manually unwind an array using
    the ``embedded.array[].field`` syntax. See
    :ref:`this section <aggregations-list-fields>` for more details.

.. _aggregations-bounds:

Compute bounds
______________

You can use the
:meth:`bounds() <fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.bounds>`
aggregation to compute the ``[min, max]`` range of a numeric field of a
dataset:

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:

    import fiftyone.zoo as foz

    dataset = foz.load_zoo_dataset("quickstart")

    # Compute the bounds of the `uniqueness` field
    bounds = dataset.bounds("uniqueness")
    print(bounds)
    # (0.15001302256126986, 1.0)

    # Compute the bounds of the detection confidences in the `predictions` field
    bounds = dataset.bounds("predictions.detections.confidence")
    print(bounds)
    # (0.05003104358911514, 0.9999035596847534)

.. _aggregations-count:

Count items
___________

You can use the
:meth:`count() <fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.count>` aggregation
to compute the number of non-``None`` field values in a collection:

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:

    import fiftyone.zoo as foz

    dataset = foz.load_zoo_dataset("quickstart")

    # Compute the number of samples in the dataset
    count = dataset.count()
    print(count)
    # 200

    # Compute the number of samples with `predictions`
    count = dataset.count("predictions")
    print(count)
    # 200

    # Compute the number of detections in the `ground_truth` field
    count = dataset.count("predictions.detections")
    print(count)
    # 5620

.. _aggregations-count-values:

Count values
____________

You can use the
:meth:`count_values() <fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.count_values>`
aggregation to compute the occurrences of field values in a collection:

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:

    import fiftyone.zoo as foz

    dataset = foz.load_zoo_dataset("quickstart")

    # Compute the number of samples in the dataset
    counts = dataset.count_values("tags")
    print(counts)
    # {'validation': 200}

    # Compute a histogram of the predicted labels in the `predictions` field
    counts = dataset.count_values("predictions.detections.label")
    print(counts)
    # {'bicycle': 13, 'hot dog': 8, ..., 'skis': 52}

.. _aggregations-distinct:

Distinct values
_______________

You can use the
:meth:`distinct() <fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.distinct>`
aggregation to compute the distinct values of a field in a collection:

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:

    import fiftyone.zoo as foz

    dataset = foz.load_zoo_dataset("quickstart")

    # Get the distinct tags on the dataset
    values = dataset.distinct("tags")
    print(values)
    # ['validation']

    # Get the distinct labels in the `predictions` field
    values = dataset.distinct("predictions.detections.label")
    print(values)
    # ['airplane', 'apple', 'backpack', ..., 'wine glass', 'zebra']

.. _aggregations-histogram-values:

Histogram values
________________

You can use the
:meth:`histogram_values() <fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.histogram_values>`
aggregation to compute the histograms of numeric fields of a collection:

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:

    import numpy as np
    import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

    import fiftyone.zoo as foz

    def plot_hist(counts, edges):
        counts = np.asarray(counts)
        edges = np.asarray(edges)
        left_edges = edges[:-1]
        widths = edges[1:] - edges[:-1]
        plt.bar(left_edges, counts, width=widths, align="edge")

    dataset = foz.load_zoo_dataset("quickstart")

    #
    # Compute a histogram of the `uniqueness` field
    #

    counts, edges, other = dataset.histogram_values("uniqueness", bins=50)

    plot_hist(counts, edges)
    plt.show(block=False)

.. image:: /images/histogram_values_uniqueness.png
   :alt: histogram-values
   :align: center

.. _aggregations-schema:

Schema
______

You can use the
:meth:`schema() <fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.schema>`
aggregation to extract the names and types of the attributes of a specified
embedded document field across all samples in a collection.

Schema aggregations are useful for detecting the presence and types of
:ref:`dynamic attributes <dynamic-attributes>` of |Label| fields across a
collection.

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:

    import fiftyone.zoo as foz

    dataset = foz.load_zoo_dataset("quickstart")

    # Extract the names and types of all dynamic attributes on the
    # `ground_truth` detections
    print(dataset.schema("ground_truth.detections", dynamic_only=True))

.. code-block:: text

    {
        'area': <fiftyone.core.fields.FloatField object at 0x7fc94015fb50>,
        'iscrowd': <fiftyone.core.fields.FloatField object at 0x7fc964869fd0>,
    }

You can also use the
:meth:`list_schema() <fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.list_schema>`
aggregation to extract the value type(s) in a list field across all samples in
a collection:

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:

    from datetime import datetime
    import fiftyone as fo

    dataset = fo.Dataset()

    sample1 = fo.Sample(
        filepath="image1.png",
        ground_truth=fo.Classification(
            label="cat",
            info=[
                fo.DynamicEmbeddedDocument(
                    task="initial_annotation",
                    author="Alice",
                    timestamp=datetime(1970, 1, 1),
                    notes=["foo", "bar"],
                ),
                fo.DynamicEmbeddedDocument(
                    task="editing_pass",
                    author="Bob",
                    timestamp=datetime.utcnow(),
                ),
            ],
        ),
    )

    sample2 = fo.Sample(
        filepath="image2.png",
        ground_truth=fo.Classification(
            label="dog",
            info=[
                fo.DynamicEmbeddedDocument(
                    task="initial_annotation",
                    author="Bob",
                    timestamp=datetime(2018, 10, 18),
                    notes=["spam", "eggs"],
                ),
            ],
        ),
    )

    dataset.add_samples([sample1, sample2])

    # Determine that `ground_truth.info` contains embedded documents
    print(dataset.list_schema("ground_truth.info"))
    # fo.EmbeddedDocumentField

    # Determine the fields of the embedded documents in the list
    print(dataset.schema("ground_truth.info[]"))
    # {'task': StringField, ..., 'notes': ListField}

    # Determine the type of the values in the nested `notes` list field
    # Since `ground_truth.info` is not yet declared on the dataset's schema, we
    # must manually include `[]` to unwind the info lists
    print(dataset.list_schema("ground_truth.info[].notes"))
    # fo.StringField

    # Declare the `ground_truth.info` field
    dataset.add_sample_field(
        "ground_truth.info",
        fo.ListField,
        subfield=fo.EmbeddedDocumentField,
        embedded_doc_type=fo.DynamicEmbeddedDocument,
    )

    # Now we can inspect the nested `notes` field without unwinding
    print(dataset.list_schema("ground_truth.info.notes"))
    # fo.StringField

.. note::

    Schema aggregations are used internally by
    :meth:`get_dynamic_field_schema() <fiftyone.core.dataset.Dataset.get_dynamic_field_schema>`
    to impute the types of undeclared lists and embedded documents in a
    dataset.

.. _aggregations-sum:

Sum values
__________

You can use the
:meth:`sum() <fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.sum>` aggregation to
compute the sum of the (non-``None``) values of a field in a collection:

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:

    import fiftyone.zoo as foz

    dataset = foz.load_zoo_dataset("quickstart")

    # Compute average confidence of detections in the `predictions` field
    print(
        dataset.sum("predictions.detections.confidence") /
        dataset.count("predictions.detections.confidence")
    )
    # 0.34994137249820706

.. _aggregations-mean:

Mean values
___________

You can use the
:meth:`mean() <fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.mean>` aggregation to
compute the arithmetic mean of the (non-``None``) values of a field in a
collection:

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:

    import fiftyone.zoo as foz

    dataset = foz.load_zoo_dataset("quickstart")

    # Compute average confidence of detections in the `predictions` field
    print(dataset.mean("predictions.detections.confidence"))
    # 0.34994137249820706

.. _aggregations-quantiles:

Quantiles
_________

You can use the
:meth:`quantiles() <fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.quantiles>`
aggregation to compute the quantile(s) of the (non-``None``) values of a field
in a collection:

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:

    import fiftyone.zoo as foz

    dataset = foz.load_zoo_dataset("quickstart")

    # Compute quantiles of the `uniqueness` field
    print(dataset.quantiles("uniqueness", [0.25, 0.5, 0.75, 0.9]))
    # [0.22027, 0.33771, 0.62554, 0.69488]

    # Compute quantiles of detection confidence in the `predictions` field
    quantiles = dataset.quantiles(
        "predictions.detections.confidence",
        [0.25, 0.5, 0.75, 0.9],
    )
    print(quantiles)
    # [0.09231, 0.20251, 0.56273, 0.94354]

.. _aggregations-std:

Standard deviation
__________________

You can use the
:meth:`std() <fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.std>` aggregation to
compute the standard deviation of the (non-``None``) values of a field in a
collection:

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:

    import fiftyone.zoo as foz

    dataset = foz.load_zoo_dataset("quickstart")

    # Compute standard deviation of the confidence of detections in the
    # `predictions` field
    print(dataset.std("predictions.detections.confidence"))
    # 0.3184061813934825

.. _aggregations-values:

Values
______

You can use the
:meth:`values() <fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.values>`
aggregation to extract a list containing the values of a field across all
samples in a collection:

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:

    import fiftyone.zoo as foz

    dataset = foz.load_zoo_dataset("quickstart")

    # Extract the `uniqueness` values for all samples
    uniqueness = dataset.values("uniqueness")
    print(len(uniqueness))  # 200

    # Extract the labels for all predictions
    labels = dataset.values("predictions.detections.label")
    print(len(labels))  # 200
    print(labels[0]) # ['bird', ..., 'bear', 'sheep']

.. note::

    Unlike other aggregations,
    :meth:`values() <fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.values>` does
    not automatically unwind list fields, which ensures that the returned
    values match the potentially-nested structure of the documents.

    You can opt-in to unwinding specific list fields using the ``[]``
    syntax, or you can pass the optional ``unwind=True`` parameter to unwind
    all supported list fields. See :ref:`aggregations-list-fields` for more
    information.

.. _aggregations-advanced:

Advanced usage
______________

.. _aggregations-list-fields:

Aggregating list fields
-----------------------

Aggregations that operate on scalar fields can also be applied to the elements
of list fields by appending ``[]`` to the list component of the field path.

The example below demonstrates this capability:

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:

    import fiftyone as fo

    dataset = fo.Dataset()
    dataset.add_samples(
        [
            fo.Sample(
                filepath="/path/to/image1.png",
                keypoints=fo.Keypoint(points=[(0, 0), (1, 1)]),
                classes=fo.Classification(
                    label="cat", confidence=0.9, friends=["dog", "squirrel"]
                ),
            ),
            fo.Sample(
                filepath="/path/to/image2.png",
                keypoints=fo.Keypoint(points=[(0, 0), (0.5, 0.5), (1, 1)]),
                classes=fo.Classification(
                    label="dog", confidence=0.8, friends=["rabbit", "squirrel"],
                ),
            ),
        ]
    )

    #
    # Count the number of keypoints in the dataset
    #
    # The `points` list attribute is declared on the `Keypoint` class, so it is
    # automatically unwound
    #
    count = dataset.count("keypoints.points")
    print(count)
    # 5

    #
    # Compute the values in the `friends` field of the predictions
    #
    # The `friends` list attribute is a dynamic custom attribute, so we must
    # explicitly request that it be unwound
    #
    counts = dataset.count_values("classes.friends[]")
    print(counts)
    # {'dog': 1, 'squirrel': 2, 'rabbit': 1}

.. note::

    FiftyOne will automatically unwind all array fields that are defined in the
    dataset's schema without requiring you to explicitly specify this via the
    ``[]`` syntax. This includes the following cases:

    **Top-level list fields:** When you write an aggregation that refers to a
    top-level list field of a dataset; i.e., ``list_field`` is automatically
    coerced to ``list_field[]``, if necessary.

    **Frame fields:** When you write an aggregation that refers to a
    frame-level field of a video dataset; i.e.,
    ``frames.classification.label`` is automatically coerced to
    ``frames[].classification.label`` if necessary.

    **Embedded list fields:** When you write an aggregation that refers to a
    list attribute that is declared on a |Sample|, |Frame|, or |Label| class,
    such as the
    :attr:`Classification.tags <fiftyone.core.labels.Classification.tags>`,
    :attr:`Detections.detections <fiftyone.core.labels.Detections.detections>`,
    or :attr:`Keypoint.points <fiftyone.core.labels.Keypoint.points>`
    attributes; i.e., ``ground_truth.detections.label`` is automatically
    coerced to ``ground_truth.detections[].label``, if necessary.

.. _aggregations-expressions:

Aggregating expressions
-----------------------

Aggregations also support performing more complex computations on fields via
the optional :class:`expr <fiftyone.core.aggregations.Aggregation>` argument,
which is supported by all aggregations and allows you to specify a
|ViewExpression| defining an arbitrary transformation of the field you're
operating on prior to aggregating.

The following examples demonstrate the power of aggregating with expressions:

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: Object statistics

        The code sample below computes some statistics about the number of
        predicted objects in a dataset:

        .. code-block:: python
            :linenos:

            import fiftyone as fo
            import fiftyone.zoo as foz
            from fiftyone import ViewField as F

            dataset = foz.load_zoo_dataset("quickstart")

            # Expression that computes the number of predicted objects
            num_objects = F("predictions.detections").length()

            # The `(min, max)` number of predictions per sample
            print(dataset.bounds(num_objects))

            # The average number of predictions per sample
            print(dataset.mean(num_objects))

            # Two equivalent ways of computing the total number of predictions
            print(dataset.sum(num_objects))
            print(dataset.count("predictions.detections"))

    .. tab:: Normalized labels

        The code sample below computes some statistics about predicted object
        labels after doing some normalization:

        .. code-block:: python
            :linenos:

            import fiftyone as fo
            import fiftyone.zoo as foz
            from fiftyone import ViewField as F

            dataset = foz.load_zoo_dataset("quickstart")

            ANIMALS = [
                "bear", "bird", "cat", "cow", "dog", "elephant", "giraffe",
                "horse", "sheep", "zebra"
            ]

            # Expression that replaces all animal labels with "animal" and then
            # capitalizes all labels
            normed_labels = F("predictions.detections.label").map_values(
                {a: "animal" for a in ANIMALS}
            ).upper()

            # A histogram of normalized predicted labels
            print(dataset.count_values(normed_labels))

    .. tab:: Bounding box areas

        The code sample below computes some statistics about the sizes of
        ground truth and predicted bounding boxes in a dataset, in pixels:

        .. code-block:: python
            :linenos:

            import fiftyone as fo
            import fiftyone.zoo as foz
            from fiftyone import ViewField as F

            dataset = foz.load_zoo_dataset("quickstart")
            dataset.compute_metadata()

            # Expression that computes the area of a bounding box, in pixels
            # Bboxes are in [top-left-x, top-left-y, width, height] format
            bbox_width = F("bounding_box")[2] * F("$metadata.width")
            bbox_height = F("bounding_box")[3] * F("$metadata.height")
            bbox_area = bbox_width * bbox_height

            # Expression that computes the area of ground truth bboxes
            gt_areas = F("ground_truth.detections[]").apply(bbox_area)

            # Compute (min, max, mean) of ground truth bounding boxes
            print(dataset.bounds(gt_areas))
            print(dataset.mean(gt_areas))

.. note::

    When aggregating expressions, field names may contain list fields, and such
    field paths are handled as
    :ref:`explained above <aggregations-list-fields>`.

    However, there is one important exception when expressions are involved:
    fields paths that **end** in array fields are not automatically unwound,
    you must specify that they should be unwound by appending ``[]``. This
    change in default behavior allows for the possibility that the
    |ViewExpression| you provide is intended to operate on the array as a
    whole.

    .. code-block:: python

        import fiftyone as fo
        import fiftyone.zoo as foz
        from fiftyone import ViewField as F

        dataset = foz.load_zoo_dataset("quickstart")

        # Counts the number of predicted objects
        # Here, `predictions.detections` is treated as `predictions.detections[]`
        print(dataset.count("predictions.detections"))

        # Counts the number of predicted objects with confidence > 0.9
        # Here, `predictions.detections` is not automatically unwound
        num_preds = F("predictions.detections").filter(F("confidence") > 0.9).length()
        print(dataset.sum(num_preds))

        # Computes the (min, max) bounding box area in normalized coordinates
        # Here we must manually specify that we want to unwind terminal list field
        # `predictions.detections` by appending `[]`
        bbox_area = F("bounding_box")[2] * F("bounding_box")[3]
        print(dataset.bounds(F("ground_truth.detections[]").apply(bbox_area)))

.. _aggregations-batching:

Batching aggregations
---------------------

Rather than computing a single aggregation by invoking methods on a |Dataset|
or |DatasetView| object, you can also instantiate an |Aggregation| object
directly. In this case, the aggregation is not tied to any dataset or view,
only to the parameters such as field name that define it.

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:

    import fiftyone as fo

    # will count the number of samples in a dataset
    sample_count = fo.Count()

    # will count the labels in a `ground_truth` detections field
    count_values = fo.CountValues("ground_truth.detections.label")

    # will compute a histogram of the `uniqueness` field
    histogram_values = fo.HistogramValues("uniqueness", bins=50)

Instantiating aggregations in this way allows you to execute multiple
aggregations on a dataset or view efficiently in a batch via
:meth:`aggregate() <fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.aggregate>`:

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:

    import fiftyone.zoo as foz

    dataset = foz.load_zoo_dataset("quickstart")

    results = dataset.aggregate([sample_count, count_values, histogram_values])

    print(results[0])
    # 200

    print(results[1])
    # {'bowl': 15, 'scissors': 1, 'cup': 21, ..., 'vase': 1, 'sports ball': 3}

    print(results[2][0])  # counts
    # [0, 0, 0, ..., 15, 12, ..., 0, 0]

    print(results[2][1])  # edges
    # [0.0, 0.02, 0.04, ..., 0.98, 1.0]

.. _aggregations-transforming-data:

Transforming data before aggregating
------------------------------------

You can use view stages like
:meth:`map_labels() <fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.map_labels>`
in concert with aggregations to efficiently compute statistics on your
datasets.

For example, suppose you would like to compute the histogram of the labels in
a dataset with certain labels grouped into a single category. You can use
:meth:`map_labels() <fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.map_labels>` +
:meth:`count_values() <fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.count_values>`
to succinctly express this:

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:

    import fiftyone as fo
    import fiftyone.zoo as foz

    dataset = foz.load_zoo_dataset("quickstart")

    # Map `cat` and `dog` to `pet`
    labels_map = {"cat": "pet", "dog": "pet"}

    counts = (
        dataset
        .map_labels("ground_truth", labels_map)
        .count_values("ground_truth.detections.label")
    )

    print(counts)
    # {'toothbrush': 2, 'train': 5, ..., 'pet': 31, ..., 'cow': 22}

Or, suppose you would like to compute the average confidence of a model's
predictions, ignoring any values less than 0.5. You can use
:meth:`filter_labels() <fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.filter_labels>` +
:meth:`sum() <fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.sum>` +
:meth:`count() <fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.count>`
to succinctly express this:

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:

    import fiftyone as fo
    import fiftyone.zoo as foz
    from fiftyone import ViewField as F

    dataset = foz.load_zoo_dataset("quickstart")

    avg_conf = (
        dataset
        .filter_labels("predictions", F("confidence") >= 0.5)
        .mean("predictions.detections.confidence")
    )

    print(avg_conf)
    # 0.8170506501060617

.. _aggregations-frame-labels:

Aggregating frame labels
------------------------

You can compute aggregations on the frame labels of a video dataset by adding
the ``frames`` prefix to the relevant frame field name:

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:

    import fiftyone as fo
    import fiftyone.zoo as foz

    dataset = foz.load_zoo_dataset("quickstart-video")

    # Count the number of video frames
    count = dataset.count("frames")
    print(count)
    # 1279

    # Compute a histogram of per-frame object labels
    counts = dataset.count_values("frames.detections.detections.label")
    print(counts)
    # {'person': 1108, 'vehicle': 7511, 'road sign': 2726}
