.. _get-started-teams-installation:

Getting started
================


To get started, you will need to provide your Voxel51 Support Team with:

* A :ref:`SSL-Protected callback URL <ssl-callback-url>` for Authentication
* :ref:`Identity Provider <identity-providers>` information
* A list of users who will need to install the FiftyOne Teams Client


Your Voxel51 Support Team will provide:

* :ref:`Authentication tokens <auth-tokens>`
* :ref:`FiftyOne Teams organization ID <teams-org-and-client-id>`
* :ref:`FiftyOne Teams client ID <teams-org-and-client-id>`
* :ref:`FiftyOne Teams Dockerfile <teams-dockerfile>`
* FiftyOne Teams authentication connections

.. _ssl-callback-url:

SSL-protected callback URL
___________________________

The FiftyOne Teams Authentication backend requires a SSL-secured endpoint to route traffic back to after authentication and authorization are complete.  The endpoint does not need to be exposed to the Internet, and it does not require outgoing connectivity to the Internet, but must be an HTTPS URL.

Voxel51 can provide you with a <Company Identifier>.fiftyone.ai DNS entry if you would like, or you can provide your own.  If you would like a fiftyone.ai name you will need to provide an IP address to your Voxel51 Support Team.

In either case, your Voxel51 Support Team will need to know the URL in order to configure it as part of your organization's Auth0 authentication backend.


.. _identity-providers:

Identity providers
___________________________

The FiftyOne Teams application integrates with your SSO Identity Provider (IdP) through Auth0.  This guide provides high-level configuration details for SAML and OpenID IdP configuration, but you can find detailed information on integrating these and other IdPs on the `Auth0 documentation site <https://auth0.com/docs/authenticate/identity-providers/enterprise-identity-providers>`_.

**SAML IdP**

You will need to provide your Voxel51 Support Team with:

* Sign-In URL
* X509 Signing Certificate File
* Assertion Consumer Service URL (a.k.a. Post-back URL)

**OpenID IdP**

You will need to provide your Voxel51 Support Team with:

* Issuer URL
* Client ID
* Client secret (back channel only)

You should configure your OpenID IdP with a Callback URL of:

.. code-block:: shell

	https://login.fiftyone.ai/login/callback


.. _auth-tokens:

Authentication tokens
___________________________

In order to deploy the FiftyOne Teams server or the FiftyOne Teams client, you will need to get authentication tokens from your Voxel51 Support Team. These tokens will authenticate you to the Voxel51 private pypi server and allow you to download the FiftyOne Teams packages.

You will need to provide your Voxel51 Support Team with:

* A list of all users who will deploy the FiftyOne Teams client

Your Voxel51 Support Team will provide you with:

* Authentication tokens for each user who will deploy the FiftyOne Teams client
* An automation token for use in automated workflows and building FiftyOne Teams images

.. _teams-org-and-client-id:

FiftyOne Teams organization ID and client ID
______________________________________________

In order to run the FiftyOne Teams server, and to authenticate against the Auth0 implementation, you will need to obtain a FiftyOne Teams Organization ID and a FiftyOne Teams Client ID.  These are both generated by Auth0 and are used as part of the FiftyOne Teams Authentication process.

Your Voxel51 Support Team will provide you with:

* An Auth0 organization ID
* An Auth0 Client ID

.. _teams-dockerfile:

FiftyOne Teams Dockerfile
___________________________

The FiftyOne Teams Dockerfile is used to build the FiftyOne Teams container.  This container can be used to deploy FiftyOne Teams on standalone server instances, in Kubernetes, or in vendor-specific container execution platforms (e.g. AWS Fargate, Google Cloud Run).

Your Voxel51 Support Team will provide you with:

* A FiftyOne Teams Dockerfile




